+++
title = "make anki deck cards"
last_modified_date = "2023-10-29"

[extra]
image = "hexcell.png"
+++

记录下如何自动化听写并制作卡片导入Anki

# 比较对错

`=IF(A1<>B1, B1, "")  `

# translate

`=GOOGLETRANSLATE(A1,"en","zh-CN") `

# anki

export to csv --> anki-file-import --> awesomeTTS import

I need to record more about the anki, the inspiration is from [computer-science-flash-cards](https://github.com/jwasham/computer-science-flash-cards), knowledge is not only to learn once to remember it, repeat and practice is important too, so I am precious that anki here.

There are 2 questions:

1. too many cards, how to arrange to study?
   1. refer to [anki filter](https://www.zhihu.com/question/465450224), we could use the overall rule to filter them.
2. whats the meaning of the memory parameters?
   1. refer to [anki parameters](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/42921090), to know the internal, complex point, diff type cards(easy, normal, hard), the duration will be computed by the multiplication of the interval and the complex factor, the factor will be changed by the answer of the card. 
3. how to make decks and cards?
   1. why we make cards?
      1. to memory the basic points, these points dont have the connections mostly.
   2. the important points are: 
      1. tag
         1. easier to filter
      2. format automatically
      3. better to use different way to input, such as vscode

# anki for vscode

```
## recursion
```python
def factorial(n):
    # Base case: factorial of 0 or 1 is 1
    if n == 0 or n == 1:
        return 1
    # Recursive case: factorial of n is n multiplied by factorial of (n-1)
    else:
        return n * factorial(n-1)
\```
```